Okay, so now let's talk about using
the actor model within a machine.
So I'm gonna make a new machine here,
createMachine.
And we're not gonna have any
states in this machine just
because I wanna show you just the basic
features of invoking an actor.
So with invoke, the machine itself when
it's interpreted, it becomes an actor.
And so we know this because we've
been using state machines in this way
where we interpret them, we subscribe
to them, we can send stuff to them.
And this is a pretty useful interface
that covers a lot of use cases.
So the other part of the actor
model is being able to spawn or
create your own actors and so we could
do that in next state using invoke.
So one of the simplest actors
to invoke is a Promise.
And so everything that goes
in this source by the way for
the invoke,
is a way of creating that actor.
So just like many other functions in
XD it takes the context in the event,
and it should return the thing
that can be turned into an actor.
So for instance,
we're going to be returning a Promise.
And so I'm just going to say,
this is gonna be a new
Promise that resolves after some time-out.
So resolve with 42 and we're gonna
have this resolved after a second.
Okay, so now let's interpret this machine,
And, Let's also subscribe to it.
So service.subscribe(state,
console.log(state,
just to see exactly what happens.
All right, so we reload after a second,
you see that something happens over
here and we get an event pack.
We get this done.invoke
dot whatever this is.
So to make this a little bit nicer,
you can also give the invoking ID.
So id, we're just gonna be
calling this fetchNumber.
And so now after one second,
this event has a nicer name.
It's done.invoke.fetchNumber.
And the data that is returned
from that Promise or
a result from it is in this
data property of the events.
And so what we could do is have an onDone
transition inside of this invoke.
So onDone, actions and we are going to,
let's just log the event.
So I'm gonna say console.log('DONE!') and
we're gonna get the events.
All right, cool, so we have done and
here is the events,
we have done.invoke.fetchNumber
with data of 42.
And so
just like the other onDone transition,
this can target a different state.
So if we have initial loading,
states, loading,
we can put this invoke
inside of that state and
onDone, we could go to success,
And we could target success over here,
so target success.
And it's still going to log('DONE,
so I wanna log the state.value now.
And so now let's see what happens.
So we're in the loading state.
And after a second we get that same
done.invoke.fetchNumber events,
but it calls the onDone transition,
and it targets the success date.
So now, we're in success.
One thing that is in SEX mail, which
I find to be a really useful feature.
And I'm gonna bump this up
to five seconds, just so
we could demonstrate is the facts that
when we leave this loading states,
this invocation will
actually be cancelled.
So whatever this Promise resolves with,
it's going to be ignored as we expect
because this invocation is only active
while the state machine is in the states.
So let's now add a transition,
so on CANCEL.
We're gonna go to the cancelled,
so we're just leaving the state,
we're not doing any specific cancellation.
We're not dealing with this invoke,
we just know that it's gonna be
cancelled when we leave that states,
so window.service = service.
I have five seconds to type this, so
let me jump this up to 10 seconds.
All right, so service.send( 'CANCEL,
Wow, I think it's gonna.
Okay there we go, we're canceled,
somehow I made that below 10 seconds but
yeah, we do go to the canceled state and
now.
The Promise is not, so
we don't get that done.invoke dot
that data because it was cancelled.
So just to verify that this is working.
All right, I sense cancel, but it was too
fast for me, so I'm gonna do this again,
and I'm gonna console.log(' resolved,
There we go.
So we have resolved,
which means the Promise did resolve, but
it did not cause any transition.
This onDone transition wasn't taken,
we don't have this done events.
And that's because we're in a state where
this transition doesn't do anything.
So you get cancellation for
free basically.
And this is sort of going back to the idea
that state machines prevent impossible
states and impossible transitions.
Because when we're not
in the loading state,
we should not be handling
this onDone of this invoke.
You could also have on error if you want,
and that would be a good exercise to
you at home, just learning how to
handle errors in invocations as well.
But yeah.
So another thing that you
can invoke is actually,
a lot more flexible than a Promise because
a Promise cannot receive any more events.
It started and then it's gonna
go do something it think, and
then it might eventually
return with the value.
Now, we need something a little
bit more powerful than that and
so that's what invoking callbacks is for.
So invokes callback,
I'm just gonna put it up here.
It has a special function signature
where it takes two arguments.
It takes send back arguments where
we basically can send an event
back to the parents and
it takes an on receive.
I'm just gonna call this
receive arguments as well.
And so both of these are really useful for
doing communication back and
forth between the machine.
So I'm gonna say receive and
that's gonna take an event and
so we could console.log('
Received in that events.
And so
let's actually just try this out for now.
Instead of this, I'm going to be
replacing this with that callback.
And so we have fetchNumber, and
this id is gonna be important for
communicating back to that invoked actor.
So instead of canceling,
I'm gonna have a on notify events,
And that's going to,
gonna grab send from here,
that's going to do a send action.
And we're going to send what did we call
it, no, let's find out over here actually,
yeah, we didn't specify an event,
so we could just send any events.
So ANY_EVENT, and
we're gonna send it to that ID.
So fetchNumber.
All right, so now when we reload and
I'm gonna send the NOTIFY events.
It says received ANY_EVENT
from the machine.
So there's a lot of
useful actions like this.
This is ANY_EVENT, but
if I wants to just straight-up
forward that event,
I could use the forward action,
which I think is in here,
might be, let's find out.
So forward, and then you could yeah,
just specify it that way but
that's something that you could
discover in the documentation.
This is something that we're gonna be
using in the actual exercise itself.
Okay, so with the callback,
you could receive an events and
do something based on that event, and
you could also send something back.
So let's say that whenever
I receive an event,
I'm gonna setTimeout And I'm gonna
send back just type PING, I guess.
And we're gonna do that after a second,
whenever I receive an event,
so let's try that out.
So here's how we're gonna model it.
When we notify, we're gonna send
ANY_EVENT to that, that's number actor.
After a second, that actor is
going to send a PING event, and
we're gonna respond to it.
Or we're going to respond to the events
in the machine by just transitioning to
the success state.
So it seems a little bit complicated, but
we're gonna make it a little
bit more clear in a minute.
All right, so let's try this out.
We're in the loading state,
we send notify, and then after a second,
we end up in the success states.
Okay, so
what exactly is happening over here?
I know we just talked about it, but
just like using state machines and
state charts,
it is nice to see them diagram form.
And so that's why I like swimlanes.io
as a tool for doing this.
So okay, we have this machine over here.
And this is fetch number, so
it's sending ANY_EVENT to fetchNumber.
So after one second,
fetchNumber is sending
the machine a PING events.
So this sort of describes the
communication between these two different
actors.
When the machine, sorry, when the I'm
just gonna call this the client.
When the client sends the machine NOTIFY,
that's gonna cause the machine to
send ANY_EVENT to fetchNumber,
fetchNumber is going to send
PING back to the machine.
And some of the machine is going to
transition to the success state.
So this is called a sequence diagram,
and it's really useful for
diagramming the communication
between actors.
And so I recommend you use swimlanes.io or
other tools for
sequence diagrams in your application.
Just to describe the different use cases
of how different actors can communicate
with each other.
They're really useful tools.
All right, so the last thing that I
want to show you that you can invoke,
and we're gonna be using a machine
instead of a callback here.
I'm just gonna call this
const fetchMachine, and
I'm gonna be creating
a new machine over here.
So when I enter this machine, let's say
that the initial state is fetching.
And just to make things simple,
after one second,
we're gonna go to the success states.
And this success state is
gonna have type of final.
All right, so in this machine, now we
have a final state as a top level state.
And so
this signifies that the machine is done.
Now, just like you remember
from invoking a Promise,
we could think of this invoking
of a machine in the same way.
Where this machine is like
a combination of invoking
a promise in a callback because
the machine can be done.
The machine can also send events
to the parents machine and
the machine can also receive
events from the machine as well.
So it is really powerful.
And we could also, and this is something
that we haven't exactly talked about
with final states, but
we could also send its data.
So we could send it counts 42,
which is the example data that
I'd love to send all the time.
And now instead of this
context events callback,
we could just provide
the fetch machine itself.
All right, so now let's see what happens.
We're no longer, we don't have the NOTIFY
or PING, it's going to invoke the machine,
and after one second, this machine
is going to be in its final state.
And so it's going to send this
parent machine, a done event,
and we're going to see, hopefully,
this done data logged in here.
So when we go back here, we see it
says done, if we look at the data,
we have counts as 42 and
we transition to the success date.
So that's showing you how machines
can also invoke other machines too.
And so like I said, we could also
send events to that machine and
everything's going to
work just as expected.
One final thing before we get
off this topic, with a callback,
it is important that in this callback,
you might be doing some imperative stuff.
Or some leaky stuff such as having
a setTimeout or set interval or
maybe you open a web socket connection.
There's literally anything you
could do in this callback.
But there needs to be a way to
dispose of the callback as well.
And so that's why you could
return a disposal function.
So if I just say let timeout and
just being a little bit responsible
over here timeout = setTimeout.
Then I could I think
it's called clearTimeout,
I always get confused whether it's clear
or cancel, clearTimeouts that's timeout.
So this is just being a good
citizen preventing memory leaks,
just showing you that you can
return that cleanup function.
All right, so
the other thing that is something that
I do recommend you research
is spawning an actor.
And so spawning is basically
the same as invoking, but
the spawn actor does
not live in the state.
In fact, it lives for
the entire lifetime of the machine.
And if you want to stop it,
it must be manually stopped.
And so that's basically the only
difference between spawning an actor and
invoking an actor.
So I recommend if you want to look up
the use cases for spawning in actor,
read the documentation on it.
There are a few examples on that as well.
But we won't be going over that in
too much detail in this course.
We're just gonna be talking about invoking
actors for the sake of this example.